the Israeli military has released
footage it says shows Hamas leader yaka
sinoa walking through a tunnel in Gaza
the video allegedly shows sinoa with his
wife children and his brother Israel has
accused sinoa of organizing hamas's
Terror attacks on October 7th Army
spokesman Daniel hagari said the footage
was captured on a Hamas CCTV camera 3
days after the attack and obtained by
the IDF the is Defense Forces in the
past few days this
video well let's bring in our Jerusalem
correspondent Rebecca ritters here
Rebecca tell us more about this video
why was it released
now well that's uh definitely a question
worth asking Terry this video as you
just said was uh allegedly obtained in
the last few days by the IDF they
decided to release it yesterday or late
yesterday they say that it it was taken
on the 10 of October and purports to
show uh Hamas leader Yaya sinoa with
some family members walking through that
tunnel it's very short as I'm sure
you've uh seen the audience has just
seen it there uh of course there is no
way they didn't offer any evidence to
support their claims there's no way of
verifying the video they say that they
used among other things AI to determine
that it is definitely Yaya sinoa as I
said we're not able to independently
verify that information uh as to the
timing of its release uh that's uh hard
to know obviously I can't say
definitively but given the negotiations
and the pressure that is amounting to
try to get the release of the hostages
secured this could be a reason for
Israel to release such a video at this
time because they have also said that
they are getting closer they said that
they also reached another tunnel uh in
the last days that showed signs that sin
sinoa had been there recently they said
that they're closing in on him and that
they won't stop until they get him so
the video release could be of course
pressure to try to get Hamas to agree to
some kind of Hostage
deal remind us Rebecca who Yahya sinoa
is
exactly well he's the deao leader of
Hamas in Gaza he the the Israel the
Israelis certainly consider him a
mastermind behind the October 7 attack
though evidence shows that it's likely
that there were more than one person
involved in the organization of that but
he's certainly a key figure uh that that
Israel have been saying from the very
beginning that they are going after now
uh he was elected as the leader in in
2017 he um he spent a long time in
Israeli prisons he was arrested in 1989
and spent um you know till 2011 when he
was released in a hostage uh another
hostage exchange for a soldier that was
in uh in captivity they released him in
that in 2011 and then he has slowly
built up his position within Hamas in
Gaza he's been called The Butcher of Han
yunas it is uh known very well known
that hunas is his base and and is Israel
saying that that's where they believe
that you know Hamas have a lot of its
stronghold they've been you know as we
know spending a lot of paying a lot of
attention on that region in Gaza um you
know they they they want to go after him
he's a a key figure head and very
symbolic in their hunt to dismantle
Hamas and he's even been called by media
and by others as Israel's Osama Bin
Laden so that kind of gives you an idea
of why Israel is so Keen to find him and
so Keen to to to make uh you know a
statement by capturing him Rebecca thank
you very much that was our correspondent
Rebeca ritters in
Jerusalem